README.md, before:

[Preview Current Version of Slides](https://roscoelai.github.io/dasr2020capstone/tmp/project_proposal.html)

[Preview Current Version of Document](https://roscoelai.github.io/dasr2020capstone/src/capstone_project_html.html)

# Analysing Dengue Cases in Singapore

---

## Meeting (08 Jul 2020)
### S
- Q1: Case numbers for different diseases across 2012-2020
  - Plot weekly by months for each year - line/bar graph and heat map
  - Compare significant differences between years
- Q2: Weather variables across 2012 - 2020
  - Variables: daily temperature, wind speed, daily total rainfall
  - Aggregate to weekly data - median, mean, min, max, range
  - Plot weekly by months for each year - bar graph and heat map

### A
- Q3: Correlate case numbers and weather variables in general
  - For each disease to each weather variables
  - Which disease is most related to weather
- Q4: Regression model
  - Y (number of cases) = temperature range + e
  - Y (number of cases) = temperature range + total rainfall + e
  - Y (number of cases) = temperature range + total rainfall + humidity + e
- Q5: Identify highest rainfall months and plot the number of cases over the years

### R
- Q7: Compare cases across singapore regions
  - Compare differences of cases among regions in Singapore
  - Geographical plots using Leaflet
  - Leaflet with clusterOptions
- R scripts for data import and tidy (and maybe collect... and maybe transform)

### Others
- Q6: Find intervention data (optional)
- Addresses or geocoords of clinics

---

# Capstone Project Proposal

<img src="./ncases_2012_2020.png" width="50%">

## Overview
Dengue fever is a vector-borne infectious disease that are endemic in the tropical world. Singapore is one of several countries with high disease burden of dengue. In 2020, Singapore saw 1,158 dengue cases in a week of June - the highest number of weekly dengue cases ever recorded since 2014. Why is there a sudden spike in dengue cases this year?

### Questions
  - Does atmospheric variables influence the incidence of dengue cases?
    - Specifically, is higher humidity, precipitation, or temperature associated with increased numbers of dengue cases?
  - Can atmospheric variables predict the number of dengue cases?
  - Does the number of dengue cases increase with the number of COVID-19 cases?
  - Explain the different number of cases in different regions of Singapore



## Data
- Daily climate records from [Meteorological Service Singapore (MSS)](http://www.weather.gov.sg/climate-historical-daily/)
  - Relevant variables: Rainfall, Temperature
  - Data for 2012 to 2020 will be gathered from selected climate stations
- Weekly case numbers (2012-W01 to 2020-W25) from [Ministry of Health (MOH)](https://www.moh.gov.sg/docs/librariesprovider5/diseases-updates/weekly-infectious-disease-bulletin-year-2020ea2c0b1cec1549009844537d52f2377f.xlsx)
- Latest number of cases by named regions in Singapore from [National Environment Agency (NEA)](https://www.nea.gov.sg/dengue-zika/dengue/dengue-clusters)
- Yearly population distribution across named regions in Singapore
- COVID-19 cases (Apr - Jul 2020)

### Deprecated Data
- Monthly Air Temperature And Sunshine, Relative Humidity And Rainfall from [Singapore Department of Statistics (DOS)](https://www.tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/publicfacing/api/csv/title/15306.csv)
  - <u>Reason</u>: Higher resolution (daily) data available from MSS
  - Might reconsider if humidity data is needed
- Latest number of cases by regions with geocoordinates from [Data.gov.sg](https://data.gov.sg/dataset?q=Dengue)
  - <u>Reason</u>: Potentially **grandiose** (we've not learned leaflet yet!)
- Weekly case numbers (2012-W01 to 2020-W20) from [Data.gov.sg](https://data.gov.sg/dataset?q=Dengue)
  - <u>Reason</u>: More up-to-date data available from MOH



## Analysis Plan
- Transform dengue cases data
  - Converting epidemiology weeks cases to monthly cases for 2012 - 2020
  - Combine the different Excel sheets into a table 
- Compare the monthly cases across the years
  - Using repeated-measures ANOVA
  - Plotting
- To understand if atmospheric variables have an influence in the incidence of dengue cases
  - Correlate the weather variables with number of dengue cases monthly across the years
- To test if atmospheric variables predict number of dengue cases
  - Create models for regression
  - Compare the predicted value with actual value
- For the current trend, explain the differences between the number of cases in different regions
  - According to the news report, East region has the largest number of clusters than other parts of Singapore
  - In particular, does Marine Parade and Sembawang (or Queenstown?) have any differences in their weather variable?

### Considerations and limitations
- Time lag: Dengue cases manifest 1-2 weeks after infection
  - Timing adjustments have to be made for ostensibly associated variables
- Seasonal effects
  - "Vector" months (June, July, August, September, October)
- COVID-19 cases vs. dengue cases
  - 90% foreign workers, expect a correlation
  - Compare against number of cases from Apr - Jul 2020



## Todo
- [ ] [This might be useful](http://www.weather.gov.sg/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Station_Records.pdf)
  - [ ] Extract table from .pdf
    - [ ] Not happening without Java :pensive:
    - [x] Convert to .csv using Excel
    - [x] Tidy with R

![](./climate_stations.png)

- [ ] Google Trends analysis (like what Prof. Roh did for COVID-19)?
    - Search term frequency for symptoms of dengue vs. number of cases
- [ ] Grandiose (!)
  - Population distribution
  - Spatial analysis (of what variables)?
    - Breeding habitat vs. number of cases?
    - Property prices vs. number of cases?

Commit message:

Filter climate stations for completeness

README.md, after:

[Preview Current Version of Slides](https://roscoelai.github.io/dasr2020capstone/tmp/project_proposal.html)

[Preview Current Version of Document](https://roscoelai.github.io/dasr2020capstone/src/capstone_project_html.html)

# Analysing Dengue Cases in Singapore

## Meeting (08 Jul 2020)
### S
- Q1: Case numbers for different diseases across 2012-2020
  - Plot weekly by months for each year - line/bar graph and heat map
  - Compare significant differences between years
- Q2: Weather variables across 2012 - 2020
  - Variables: daily temperature, wind speed, daily total rainfall
  - Aggregate to weekly data - median, mean, min, max, range
  - Plot weekly by months for each year - bar graph and heat map

### A
- Q3: Correlate case numbers and weather variables in general
  - For each disease to each weather variables
  - Which disease is most related to weather
- Q4: Regression model
  - Y (number of cases) = temperature range + e
  - Y (number of cases) = temperature range + total rainfall + e
  - Y (number of cases) = temperature range + total rainfall + humidity + e
- Q5: Identify highest rainfall months and plot the number of cases over the years

### R
- Q7: Compare cases across Singapore regions
  - Compare differences of cases among regions in Singapore
  - Geographical plots using Leaflet
  - Leaflet with clusterOptions
  - Associate cases with climate stations
- Data
  - Filter climate stations based on completeness of data
    - Going with: >3 days/week, >35 weeks/year
    - Down to 10 stations
- R scripts for data import
  - And maybe collect
  - And maybe tidy
  - And maybe transform

### Others
- Q6: Find intervention data (optional)
- Addresses or geocoords of clinics

---

# Capstone Project Proposal

<img src="./ncases_2012_2020.png" width="50%">

## Overview
Dengue fever is a vector-borne infectious disease that are endemic in the tropical world. Singapore is one of several countries with high disease burden of dengue. In 2020, Singapore saw 1,158 dengue cases in a week of June - the highest number of weekly dengue cases ever recorded since 2014. Why is there a sudden spike in dengue cases this year?

### Questions
  - Does atmospheric variables influence the incidence of dengue cases?
    - Specifically, is higher humidity, precipitation, or temperature associated with increased numbers of dengue cases?
  - Can atmospheric variables predict the number of dengue cases?
  - Does the number of dengue cases increase with the number of COVID-19 cases?
  - Explain the different number of cases in different regions of Singapore



## Data
- Daily climate records from [Meteorological Service Singapore (MSS)](http://www.weather.gov.sg/climate-historical-daily/)
  - Relevant variables: Rainfall, Temperature
  - Data for 2012 to 2020 will be gathered from selected climate stations
- Weekly case numbers (2012-W01 to 2020-W25) from [Ministry of Health (MOH)](https://www.moh.gov.sg/docs/librariesprovider5/diseases-updates/weekly-infectious-disease-bulletin-year-2020ea2c0b1cec1549009844537d52f2377f.xlsx)
- Latest number of cases by named regions in Singapore from [National Environment Agency (NEA)](https://www.nea.gov.sg/dengue-zika/dengue/dengue-clusters)
- Yearly population distribution across named regions in Singapore
- COVID-19 cases (Apr - Jul 2020)
- Latest number of cases by regions with geocoordinates from [Data.gov.sg](https://data.gov.sg/dataset?q=Dengue)

### Deprecated Data
- Monthly Air Temperature And Sunshine, Relative Humidity And Rainfall from [Singapore Department of Statistics (DOS)](https://www.tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/publicfacing/api/csv/title/15306.csv)
  - <u>Reason</u>: Higher resolution (daily) data available from MSS
  - Might reconsider if humidity data is needed
- Weekly case numbers (2012-W01 to 2020-W20) from [Data.gov.sg](https://data.gov.sg/dataset?q=Dengue)
  - <u>Reason</u>: More up-to-date data available from MOH



## Analysis Plan
- Transform dengue cases data
  - Converting epidemiology weeks cases to monthly cases for 2012 - 2020
  - Combine the different Excel sheets into a table 
- Compare the monthly cases across the years
  - Using repeated-measures ANOVA
  - Plotting
- To understand if atmospheric variables have an influence in the incidence of dengue cases
  - Correlate the weather variables with number of dengue cases monthly across the years
- To test if atmospheric variables predict number of dengue cases
  - Create models for regression
  - Compare the predicted value with actual value
- For the current trend, explain the differences between the number of cases in different regions
  - According to the news report, East region has the largest number of clusters than other parts of Singapore
  - In particular, does Marine Parade and Sembawang (or Queenstown?) have any differences in their weather variable?

### Considerations and limitations
- Time lag: Dengue cases manifest 1-2 weeks after infection
  - Timing adjustments have to be made for ostensibly associated variables
- Seasonal effects
  - "Vector" months (June, July, August, September, October)
- COVID-19 cases vs. dengue cases
  - 90% foreign workers, expect a correlation
  - Compare against number of cases from Apr - Jul 2020

---

![](./climate_stations.png)
